src/mcloud/gatewayx.md, before:

# Gateway X 101

>Gateway X is a gateway for Arweave / IPFS that utilizes the Meson Cloud infrastructure.

## Create Gateway X

Click `Gateway X`, click on `New Gateway` to start creating a new one.

![](./images/gatewayx-01.png)

Select `gateway type`, choose `IPFS`、`Arweave`、`mCDN`, select the geographical location for the cloud, set tags, click `create`, and the creation process will be completed.

![](./images/gatewayx-02.png)

After waiting for 1-3 minutes, the Gateway will be created and completed.

![](./images/gatewayx-03.png)

Click `Edit`, click on `Switch Default`, change Default to Yes, and click `Update` to confirm.

![](./images/gatewayx-04.png)

## Upload Files

Click `Uploading`, select `Uploading + Local` or `Uploading + Cloud`.

- **Uploading + Local**: Client installation is required to utilize local unlimited storage space.
- **Uploading + Cloud**: No client installation is needed to experience unlimited bandwidth on cloud services.

![](./images/gatewayx-05.png)

Open the client and use it to start uploading.

![](./images/gatewayx-07.png)

![](./images/gatewayx-06.png)

## Comparison

How can Gateway X be distinguished from other hosted services that employ Arweave and IPFS in terms of advantages?

Gateway X is a web3 storage solution that provides several advantages over other hosted services that utilize Arweave and IPFS. One of the most significant benefits of Gateway X is its scalability. The platform is designed to ensure robust performance and dependability, even when dealing with vast amounts of data, thus offering users the ability to rely on it both currently and in the future.

Moreover, Gateway X allows for the backup of IPFS data in Filecoin storage transactions, providing secure storage and facilitating easy retrieval. In contrast, Arweave data is stored permanently and offers encrypted proof of storage, thus enhancing the security and reliability of the stored data.

In addition, Gateway X leverages high-performing infrastructure, including the Meson Network, to offer top-quality Arweave and IPFS implementations. The platform's Arweave and IPFS HTTP gateway boasts a higher number of points of presence (POPs) and cache capacity than many other public gateways, further improving the overall performance and reliability of the service.

<table>
    <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td align="center" width="120">Gateway X</td>
        <td align="center" width="100">Pinata</td>
        <td align="center" width="100">Web3.storage</td>
        <td align="center" width="100">Filebase</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Local Storage Support</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Exclusive Upload Gateway</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Total PoPs</td>
        <td align="center">30K+</td>
        <td align="center">200+</td>
        <td align="center">200+</td>
        <td align="center">200+</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Total Files pinned</td>
        <td align="center">Unlimited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Requests</td>
        <td align="center">Unlimited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Dedicated Gateway Bandwidth</td>
        <td align="center">Unlimited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Replicated onto Filecoin</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">IPFS/Arweave Support</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">File Cache</td>
        <td align="center">1G</td>
        <td align="center">512 MB</td>
        <td align="center">512 MB</td>
        <td align="center">512 MB</td>
    </tr>
</table>

Commit message:

update add to home screen tutorial

src/mcloud/gatewayx.md, after:

# Gateway X 101

>Gateway X is a gateway for Arweave / IPFS that utilizes the Meson Cloud infrastructure.

## Create Gateway X

Click `Gateway X`, click on `New Gateway` to start creating a new one.

![](./images/gatewayx-01.png)

Select `gateway type`, choose `IPFS`、`Arweave`、`mCDN`, select the geographical location for the cloud, set tags, click `create`, and the creation process will be completed.

![](./images/gatewayx-02.png)

After waiting for 1-3 minutes, the Gateway will be created and completed.

![](./images/gatewayx-03.png)

Click `Edit`, click on `Switch Default`, change Default to Yes, and click `Update` to confirm.

![](./images/gatewayx-04.png)

## Upload Files

Click `Uploading`, select `Uploading + Local` or `Uploading + Cloud`.

- **Uploading + Local**: Client installation is required to utilize local unlimited storage space.
- **Uploading + Cloud**: No client installation is needed to experience unlimited bandwidth on cloud services.

![](./images/gatewayx-05.png)

Open the client and use it to start uploading.

![](./images/gatewayx-07.png)

![](./images/gatewayx-06.png)

- [How to Add a Meson Cloud to Home Screen on iOS and Android?](https://docs.meson.network/faq.html#how-to-add-a-meson-cloud-to-home-screen-on-ios-and-android)
## Comparison

How can Gateway X be distinguished from other hosted services that employ Arweave and IPFS in terms of advantages?

Gateway X is a web3 storage solution that provides several advantages over other hosted services that utilize Arweave and IPFS. One of the most significant benefits of Gateway X is its scalability. The platform is designed to ensure robust performance and dependability, even when dealing with vast amounts of data, thus offering users the ability to rely on it both currently and in the future.

Moreover, Gateway X allows for the backup of IPFS data in Filecoin storage transactions, providing secure storage and facilitating easy retrieval. In contrast, Arweave data is stored permanently and offers encrypted proof of storage, thus enhancing the security and reliability of the stored data.

In addition, Gateway X leverages high-performing infrastructure, including the Meson Network, to offer top-quality Arweave and IPFS implementations. The platform's Arweave and IPFS HTTP gateway boasts a higher number of points of presence (POPs) and cache capacity than many other public gateways, further improving the overall performance and reliability of the service.

<table>
    <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td align="center" width="120">Gateway X</td>
        <td align="center" width="100">Pinata</td>
        <td align="center" width="100">Web3.storage</td>
        <td align="center" width="100">Filebase</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Local Storage Support</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Exclusive Upload Gateway</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Total PoPs</td>
        <td align="center">30K+</td>
        <td align="center">200+</td>
        <td align="center">200+</td>
        <td align="center">200+</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Total Files pinned</td>
        <td align="center">Unlimited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Requests</td>
        <td align="center">Unlimited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Dedicated Gateway Bandwidth</td>
        <td align="center">Unlimited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
        <td align="center">Limited</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">Replicated onto Filecoin</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">IPFS/Arweave Support</td>
        <td align="center">yes</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
        <td align="center">no</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">File Cache</td>
        <td align="center">1G</td>
        <td align="center">512 MB</td>
        <td align="center">512 MB</td>
        <td align="center">512 MB</td>
    </tr>
</table>
